=begin pod

=head1 NAME

TXF - Provides tools to create TXF (tax exchange format) files for import into tax software

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=begin code :lang<raku>
$ zef install TXF
...
$ csv2txf /path/file.csv tax-year=2019 [toml=mycfg.toml] > /path/to/file.txf
Normal end.
Using default configuration file '$HOME/.TXF/config.toml'.
$
$ txt2csv /path/file2.txf tax-year=2019 [toml=mycfg.toml] > /path/to/file2.csv
Normal end.
Using default configuration file '$HOME/.TXF/config.toml'.
$
$ gen-tax-forms /path/to/file.csv tax-year=2019 [toml=myconfig.toml]
Normal end.
Using default configuration file './2019.toml'.
See new files:
  f8949-2019.csv
  f8949-2019.txf
  schedule-d-2019.csv
$
=end code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TXF is a module that provides three Raku programs to convert
text files from/to CVS/TXF format and to specifically
prepare files for US IRS requirements for tax reporting
of stock sales. TXF files can be
used to import US IRS-required data on stock sales into
such tax software as I<TurboTax> and I<H\&R Block>.

The module may be able to help with other financial software
if there is interest.

There are example account stock sale CVS output files from financial 
investment company
I<TD Ameritrade>, but the conversion programs should be able to
handle any input format if the user can provide a text input file
that maps the appropriate CVS file's field names (column headers)
to the standard IRS Form 8949 fields as used in the sample
I<Form8949.csv> and I<Form8949.xlsx> files.
See the inputs required in file 'resources/config.toml'.

=head1 Planned capability

=head2 Version 0.1.0

=item Situation 1 

All short- and long-term stock sales are "covered" with
bases reported to the IRS and no adjustments are needed.

Capability: Convert any investment company's tax year stock sales in
CSV format to a TXF file for import into H \& R Block's individual
tax return software for 2019.

=item Situation 2

One or more stock sales (1) need corrections to data previously reported to
the IRS or (2) have missing data to be provided to the IRS.

Capability: Use an enhanced example Form 8949 xlsx file to
provide the missing or erroneous data as a PDF file to be
attached to a printed and mailed tax return. 


=head1 CREDITS

=item Thanks to fellow [GnuCash](https://gnucash.org) user B<John John Ralls> <jralls@ceridwen.us> who kindly
found the included reference documents detailing the TXF file format specification.

=item Thanks to Github user B<Misha Brukman> and the Github repository
atn[https://github.com/mbrukman/csv2txf/](https://github.com/mbrukman/csv2txf/)
for inspiration and some code (as well as the name of the driver program C<cvs2txf.raku>).
See the code source in file C<./lib/TXF/CVS2TXT.rakumod>

=head1 AUTHOR

Tom Browder <tom.browder@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright &#x00A9; 2020 Tom Browder

This library is free software; you can redistribute it or modify it under the Artistic License 2.0.

=head1 Additional LICENSE

One file is licensed under the Apache-2.0 license:

=item ./lib/TXF/CVS2TXF.rakumod

A copy of that license is found in directory C<lib/TXF/>.

The original source of the content of that file came from
Github repository [https://github.com/mbrukman/csv2txf](https://github.com/mbrukman/csv2txf)
and was converted to its present form from Python to Raku.

=end pod
